# OSL-Robot
Title: Olfactory Odor Source Localization Robot Using Deep Neural Network

Abstract: In recent years, robotic odor source localization has become a popular research field that enables a mobile robot or an autonomous vehicle to determine/localize an odor source in unknown environments. There are various algorithms that have been proposed to guide the robot to detect and trace a plume and localize the odor source effectively and efficiently. The pros and cons of these algorithms depend mainly on the environment (laminar or turbulent), computational cost, and the available data. In previous work, some of these algorithms have shown successful results in one environment and poor results in other environments. For instance, a moth-inspired algorithm runs accurately in a laminar environment, while it barely localizes the chemical source in a turbulent environment. In this project, we will apply the machine learning methods using deep neural networks, namely the convolutional neural network (CNN) and the recurrent neural network (RNN) methods, to improve the search efficiency with lower computational cost and greater accuracy. In this project, since the collected real-world data is inadequate for training the CNN and RNN models, transfer learning will be implemented to tackle this issue. CNN and RNN models will be trained on computer simulated data, and the knowledge gained will be transferred to a model with inputted the real-world data. Transfer learning technique results in much better performance than the trained CNN and RNN models on real data in terms of generalization.
